Notice what happened here.
John expressed himself forcefully,
but the tone
and delivery shifted
into aggression.
His raised voice
and dismissive language
may have felt like taking control,
but in reality,
this behavior
risks damaging
trust and relationships
in communication styles.
This is the aggressive mode.
The focus is on winning
or dominating, often
at the cost of collaboration.
The short term result
might be attention or compliance,
but the long term
impact is resistance.
Resentment, and isolation.
Now let's pause.
Imagine you are Anna receiving
John's words in that tone.
How would you feel?
Defensive.
Shut down.
Aggressiveness often masks
legitimate concerns
that could have been voiced
in a calm, assertive way,
one that respects
both John's needs and
Anna's perspective.